index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title:  Home
---
# About

I am an engineering lead at [Wave](https://sendwave.com).  I'm excited by the power software, and I want to bring that power to people who are currently less well served by it.

I graduated from MIT in 2013 with a bachelors degree in Computer Science and a minor in Math.  While there I helped organize [Splash](http://esp.mit.edu/learn/Splash), and as an alum I have volunteered for [Learning Unlimited](http://learningu.org) to help spread Splash beyond MIT.

I love folk music and dance.  I [contra dance](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contra_dance), waltz, and dabble in other dance styles.  I play fiddle in a contra dance band called [Switching Protocols](http://switchingprotocolsband.com/) (you can email us at booking@switchingprotocolsband.com).  I also play [Swedish folk music](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LIViyqKLE4w) on fiddle and [nyckelharpa](http://www.nyckelharpa.org/about/what-is-a-nyckelharpa/).  I am also an organizer of [Next Generation Dance Camp](http://nextgendancecamp.org).


# Contact

You can contact me at ruthie@alum.mit.edu.  No job recruiting emails please.


# Housekeeping

Photos in the top bar of this site were taken by Alina Larson, Doug Plummer, Ben Kuhn, and Byron Wiley.

Commit message:

Replace with newly built website by Maia

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title:  Home
---
## About Me

I am Director of Security at [Wave](https://sendwave.com).  I'm excited by the power software, and I want to bring that power to people who are currently less well served by it.

I graduated from MIT in 2013 with a bachelors degree in Computer Science and a minor in Math.  While there I helped organize [Splash](http://esp.mit.edu/learn/Splash), and as an alum I have volunteered for [Learning Unlimited](http://learningu.org) to help spread Splash beyond MIT.

I love folk music (fiddle, singing) and dance (contra, English, waltz, rapper).  Some specific affiliations:
* I am an organizer of an organizer of [Next Generation Dance Camp](http://nextgendancecamp.org).  
* I dance rapper with [Harbour Steel](https://www.facebook.com/harboursteel/)
* Played fiddle with the no-longer-active contra dance band [Switching Protocols](http://switchingprotocolsband.com/)

<b class="hr">

<h3 class="writingsheader">Writings</h3>

I infrequently write new things, but here are my favorite blog posts, preserved for posterity.

{% include postlist.html %}
