One of my musical projects for the past couple of years has been to get better at improvising harmonies and accompaniment parts for the folk tunes I like to play.

Of all the assignments in this direction I've been given and things I've tried, the hardest ones are the most open ended.  It's just kind of overwhelming.  At a moment, I can choose to play any note.  Or two notes.  Or no notes.  And I can hold it for a long time or a short time.  And it can have any dynamic.  And then I have to choose another note.  And then another.  At 120 beats per minute.  Oh yeah, and it has to sound good.

Making totally unconstrained decisions that fast is really hard, and most of my improvisations that begin this way end up being lost, messy, or distracting.  However, if I have a rule that I choose a rule to follow and stick to that rule, my harmonies start to sound much better.

Some examples of rules:
* Play only ascending (or descending) runs
* Only Echo the melody
* Play only things that come directly from some other part of the melody
* Play two notes from each chord in any rhythm
* Play only on the lower two strings (or the upper to strings, or any individual string)
* Play a third or a fourth below the melody
* Play a "skeletal melody"--only the minimum number of notes to make the tune recognizeable--an octave above or below the melody (playing at the same pitch as the melody tends to make it sound muddy, but can work if someone else is playing wild variations on the melody and you need to maintain an anchor)
* Play only when the melody is still (or boring) and try to fill it with movement.
* Make a base line out of notes in the relevant chords.  Start on a note and every beat (or every chord change) play the next higher or lower note in the chord.

If you have other things to add to this list, I'd love to have more ideas to draw from.

Rules like these turn the task of generating a harmony into the tasks of filtering for good ones.  For most possible rules, following them leaves you only a small number of options.  It's a lot easier to go through options a, b, and c, and figure out which is best, than to make up options a, b, and c, in the first place, and the difference is particularly noticeable when you have to make these decisions in real time.

The only problem with rules like these is that they exclude lots of good harmonies.  I don't know what most of them are, because they're in the giant space that I never touch, but I do tend to notice ones that are similar to the ones generated by my rules.  For example, if you echo the melody note-for-note, you often get clashes, but if you're willing to modify your echos just a little, you have a lovely little countermelody that sounds a lot like the melody.

Luckily, If following a particular rule seems like a bad idea right at the moment, I have no problem breaking it.  If I look at why these are actually useful to me, the rules are valuable even if I don't always follow them (not true of rules in every part of life).

Another way I've varied my harmonies that works well is to play notes from the chords, or a simple parallel harmony, and look for places to vary from it, for example by moving when the melody is still or playing above the melody.  I have a rule, but instead of waiting for places where it doesn't work to change it, I actively look for points where it could be changed.  This seems like playing a totally unconstrained accompaniment, but it would be much harder if I didn't have a default to return to when I'm done adding some accent.

I've also found that working within constraints produces the best output in my other artistic endeavors.  While I was growing up I participated in a dance-drama troupe where (once we got old enough) we got to do most of our own choreography.  Between having to stay in the movement of my character and having to tell the story, I never remember being overwhelmed by all of the choices I had.  I later choreographed a couple of free-form pieces for performance, each a few minutes long, the better one was built around a (tiny little) story about two sisters.  The story was pretty low on plot, but just playing with their relationship provided plenty of direction for the piece.

I never did a ton of visual arts, but one thing that I've done in the past and still do occasionally is to color other people's outlined mandalas (right now I have a book, but the internet is also a good source of outlined mandalas).  This is pretty clearly a working within constraints problem, and it's fun to look for opportunities to vary from color-each-section-one-color-symmetrically-around-the-mandala.