I started a new job this week.  I'm working for [Wave](http://www.sendwave.com/), an app for sending remittances (money immigrants send back to their families).  I'm their third full time employee and their first engineering hire (so far all of the engineering work has been done by the founders, Lincoln and Drew).  They're starting out, but they have a lot of users, and from what I've seen they have a good chance of being successful.

When I left my last job I had some criteria for what a better job would look like, and I feel lucky to have found something that fits those criteria extremely well.  It's a product that clearly helps people.  I'm working from home and I have flexible hours, both of which make it easier to find time to do the things I want to do that aren't work.  One thing that I increasingly think is important is working for a small company, or at least on a small team.  At my last job, I was suffering both from feeling that the product I was making wasn't helping others significantly, and that I wasn't contributing significantly to the product (note that neither of these are necessarily true, they're just how I felt).  While intellectually I'd probably put more weight on the former, the latter is probably more psychologically important.

Being chosen as the second engineer for a company as promising as Wave increased my confidence that tech is a good place for me.  At one point in my interview, Drew, one of the founders, said that I seemed really genuine, and that they thought I was a great culture fit.  I was surprised, since I'm used to thinking of myself as a not-great culture fit in tech.  I have different hobbies from most of my past coworkers, I'm not very wowed by shiny technology or hip startups, and I don't spend much time on the internet.  It seems like Drew and his cofounder Lincoln wanted someone who cared about their mission more than someone who fit a particular mold of software engineer.

I originally planned to try not to go back to work until New Years.  However, four weeks in I was feeling a little bored.  I had projects that I could have worked on, but I wasn't excited about them or making much progress on them.  Since I am excited about working for Wave, I think I'll be happier between now and new years working than I would be continuing my break.