---
layout: blog
title: Leaving my Job
---

This Halloween I did something scary-- I left my job.

There are parts of my job that I love.  At Pivotal, we pair program all day, every day, two people at one computer.  This has allowed me to learn an incredible amount in the last year, more than I think I would have learned elsewhere.  It also means the people working at Pivotal are some of the most pleasant and cooperative and overall wonderful to work with people who exist in the tech industry.

There are also flip sides to that.  Pairing is exhausting, and I had never quite adjusted to that.  The second half of the day was always quite a drag, and I was not appropriately excited to see people outside of work.  Three months ago, my roommate and best friend from college moved in with me again, and I've been coming home and having to hide in my room from her desire to talk to me.  That sucks.  Pairing also dictated my work schedule, which meant coming in and 9:00 even when I've been up late dancing, and using sick time for every doctors appointment or errand.  In the end, I wasn't enjoying being at work, and it wasn't allowing me to put the energy I wanted into other parts of my life, and these considerations override the practical and professional reasons I had to stay.

At least for employable tech workers like me, I don't think leaving a job is usually such a terrifying experience, but for me it's been a harrowing couple of weeks.  I had to tell my manager (who was sad to see me go) and my mom (who thought I probably should stick around at least until I have another job, but helped me get back on her insurance at the last minute).  For the first week and a half my team didn't know I was leaving so I was walking around my workplace with the feeling of this horrible secret resting on my shoulders.

I don't like making people sad, and my manager was definitely sad to see me go.  The morning after I turned in my resignation, we sat down to talk in a tiny conference room, and she told me that she had told her boss, who had pulled my resume from the pile to interview himself, that I was leaving.  I whimpered and covered my head with my hands, but she came back with "No.  You don't get to let other people tell you to stay and stunt your growth if you should be elsewhere.  Not that I'm worried, because as much as you're whimpering and covering your head right now, I notice that you're not rescinding your resignation."  This was about the right thing to hear, and I think she was right-- I don't always love doing it, but I'm pretty capable of sticking up for my own priorities.

I'm nervous that I'm making the wrong decision, because I don't love going to work, but really, who does?  Maybe work is just a drag and I'm leaving a pretty good place that I'll never be able to replace.  I don't think this is true, and even if there's a risk that it is, staying somewhere I'm not happy only out of fear that there's nothing better seems like a poor bet.  If work sucks everywhere, I intend to find that out by working at a bunch of places and discovering that work sucks everywhere.

I'm not sure what's next.  I have some savings, so I'm taking some time to look around for particularly interesting looking opportunities.  While I do that, I am planning on working on personal projects, making music, and tending my garden, and other things that I have been less able to while also working.

At most points in my life, I have some sort of life story drawn out in my head, where the current moment is part (often the beginning) of some long trend of improvement.  I've been doing this long enough that I have no confidence in these narratives, but now in particular I'm acutely aware that while the short term looks really nice, I may have to try a bunch of different jobs before I find one that works well for me, and that process probably has a lot of ups and downs.  More reflection and planning on how to use a suddenly much larger amount of free time is likely to appear hear in the next few weeks, so stay tuned.
