---
layout: blog
title: Gig!
---

Stolen Goods (me and Ben Kuhn) had it's first gig playing for a contra dance this September.  This is how it went.

## What went well

As far as I can tell, we did a reasonably good job in general.  People seemed to have fun; I heard some whooping during the dance.  Our friends are not reliable sources on this, but they all said we sounded good, and a facebook friend I'm not particularly close to who offered frank feedback said we were about average for contra dance bands in the area.  For our first gig, I think that counts as success.

I also personally had a great time.  I really enjoyed hearing my playing amplified all over the hall and watching people move to it.  A lot of our friends came to see us play, including some non contra-dance friends, and I felt awesomely supported.

## What we learned

As you'd imagine, our first gig did not go off without hitches, and we have a lot to improve.

### Rehearsal

Before the dance, we had about 14 sets that we'd been practicing and polishing, and four backup sets.  All but one of the ones we played were in our polished collection, but one of the ones that went best (Dancing Bear/Tam Lin) was on our backup list, and another was actually two tunes from different rehearsed sets.  It seems like right now, anyway, after a point, rehearsal of particular sets doesn't matter very much.

### Sound balance

We heard that at the highest energy moments, the piano overpowered the fiddle.  In the future we should make sure we play both ends of our dynamic range during the sound check, and not just the middle.

### Phrasing

One piece of feedback we got second hand was that one person couldn't hear the phrasing on some tunes.  I'm making a lot of inference about what was going on here, but I noticed that we had at least two tunes where the phrases didn't line up with the figures.  Most contra dance tunes have a 16 beat A part and a 16 beat B part, divided up either 4-4-4-4 or 8-8.  Most contra dances which have four, eight, or sixteen beat figures, and it's easier to time the dance correctly if the figures end at the same time as phrases.  At this dance, we played Northern Air, which has a B part with 4-8-4 phrasing, and we played the Calvin Cycle, which has one long 16 beat phrase in the B part, both of which don't fit well with most dances.  I suspect that the person who had this problem was hearing the phrasing correctly, but was noticing that it didn't line up with the dance.

In the future, I think we'll have to save these two tunes for dances that happen to have exactly the right phrasing, or for advanced dancers who won't rely as much on the phrasing (as opposed to counts) to figure out when to move.

## What's next?

We had a great time playing, and we're continuing to practice looking for more gigs in the area.  We sent a couple of emails to dance organizers, but haven't heard back, so we're starting to think that email is not the best way to contact most dance organizers.