---
layout: blog
title: "Dear NYT Ethicists:  Hanging out at the Movies Does NOT Count as a Date"
---

[Yesterday's New York Times Ethicists column](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/05/magazine/do-another-womans-marriage-vows-bind-me.html?rref=collection%2Fcolumn%2Fthe-ethicist&_r=0) answers the letter of a woman who had discussed the possibility of a romantic relationship with a married friend of hers, and then found out that he had misled her about how ok with this his wife was.  The judgement of the ethicists was that she was out of line, and should cease contact with her friend (of particular worry was going out to the movies with him).

Wow, if going out to the movies with someone who's attracted to you is a date someone better phone my boyfriend and tell him I've been cheating.  A date is defined by the intentions of the people involved, not by the specifics of what happned, or whether anyone's significant other perceives what happened as a date.

The ethicists spend a long time criticizing the letter writer for having an affair with this person without the permission of his wife.  I agree that this would be a bad thing to do (although I might not raise it to the level of an ethical no-no), but I don't think she did it.  Hanging out as friends and seeing a movie, and or eveen discussing the possibility of having a romantic relationship in the future, does not count as having a romantic relationship in the present.  The writer says at the beginning of the letter that she has no intention of being involved with this man without the consent of his wife, and (if I'm reading the letter correctly) she hadn't stepped out of the realm of friendship when she found out about the wife's feelings, so I'm pretty sure she's in the clear.

The ethicists in the column come off as a little old-fashioned.  The asertion that going to a movie with an opposite-sex friend who's attracted to you counts as a date sounds very 1950s to me, and they scoff at the husband's assertion that he's in an open mairrage like it's completely implausible, while many, maybe even most, of my peer-aged married friends are in open relationships.  I don't particularly appreciate them forwarding a model of relationships where marriage is a first class citizen, to be preserved at all costs, and where people get wide latitude to police the behavior of their spouses.